[docs][cloud] Java app cloud example (#11215)
yugabyte/yugabyte-db: docs/content/latest/yugabyte-cloud/cloud-quickstart/cloud-build-apps/cloud-apps-java/cloud-ysql-yb-jdbc.md

```

If you are running the application on a free or single node cluster, the driver will display a warning that the load balance failed and will fall back to a regular connection.

You should then see output similar to the following:

```output
>>>> Successfully connected to Yugabyte Cloud.
>>>> Successfully created DemoAccount table.
>>>> Selecting accounts:
name = Jessica, age = 28, country = USA, balance = 10000
name = John, age = 28, country = Canada, balance = 9000

>>>> Transferred 800 between accounts.
>>>> Selecting accounts:
name = Jessica, age = 28, country = USA, balance = 9200
name = John, age = 28, country = Canada, balance = 9800
```

You have successfully executed a simple Java app that works with Yugabyte Cloud.

## Explore the application logic

Open the `SampleApp.java` file in the application `/src/main/java/` folder. The application has the following methods:

- **main** - establishes a connection with your cluster via the topology-aware Yugabyte JDBC driver.
- **createDatabase** - uses Postgres-compliant DDL commands to create a sample database.
- **selectAccounts** - queries your distributed data using the SQL `SELECT` statement.

> - **transferMoneyBetweenAccounts** - updates your data consistently with distributed transactions.

Reviewer: The **transferMoneyBetween...** method's implementation has the try-catch block [with the branch for the error code 40001](https://github.com/yugabyte/simple-java-app-yugabyte-cloud/blob/main/src/main/java/SampleApp.java#L119).  I decided not to bring too much attention to this situation in the code sample's README but we need to highlight this case on the documentation page. 

We can add a callout and/or a complete implementation of the **transferMoneyBetween...** method saying that:

- That error can happen because of this and that and you need to retry an aborted transaction
- Such logic will be optional in the future once Yugabyte DB adds support for pessimistic transactions. To be clarified with @ymahajan

## Learn more

> If you have issues running this application, or to learn more about YugabyteDB, post your questions to our Slack channel, or raise a question on StackOverflow and tag the question with yugabytedb.

Reviewer: This text works for GitHub's readme file but it's redundant for the docs that already have the "Ask community button". So I would replace the existing content with useful links such as:

- [Explore Additional Applications](https://docs.yugabyte.com/latest/yugabyte-cloud/cloud-develop/)
- [Yugabyte JDBC Driver Configuration](https://docs.yugabyte.com/latest/integrations/jdbc-driver/)
- [Create multi-cloud/region/zone deployments] - [not sure if this is an appropriate reference](https://docs.yugabyte.com/latest/yugabyte-platform/create-deployments/), probably similar pages are to be created for YB Cloud.

menu:
  latest:
    parent: cloud-build-apps
    name: Java
    identifier: cloud-java-1
    weight: 550
type: page
isTocNested: true
showAsideToc: true
---

<ul class="nav nav-tabs-alt nav-tabs-yb">
  <li >
    <a href="../ysql-yb-jdbc/" class="nav-link">
      <i class="icon-postgres" aria-hidden="true"></i>
      YSQL - YB - JDBC
    </a>
  </li>
</ul>

The application connects to your Yugabyte Cloud instance through the topology-aware [Yugabyte JDBC driver](../../../../../integrations/jdbc-driver/) and performs basic SQL operations. Use the application as a template to get started with Yugabyte Cloud in Java.

## Prerequisites

This tutorial assumes the following:

- You have a cluster deployed in Yugabte Cloud. To get started, use the [Quick start](../../../).
- You downloaded the cluster CA certificate. Refer to [Download your cluster certificate](../../../../cloud-secure-clusters/cloud-authentication/#download-your-cluster-certificate).
- You have added your computer to the cluster IP allow list. Refer to [Assign IP Allow Lists](../../../../cloud-secure-clusters/add-connections/).

> - Java Development Kit (JDK) 1.8, or later, is installed. JDK installers for Linux and macOS can be downloaded from [OpenJDK](http://jdk.java.net/), [AdoptOpenJDK](https://adoptopenjdk.net/), or [Azul Systems](https://www.azul.com/downloads/zulu-community/).

Reviewer 2: 1. The perennial question: does this run on current JDKs?
2. AdoptOpenJDK is now adoptium.net
3. "[OpenJDK]" should actually say "[Oracle]", as it's not OpenJDK at all
```suggestion
- Java Development Kit (JDK) 1.8, or later, is installed. JDK installers for Linux and macOS can be downloaded from [Oracle](http://jdk.java.net/), [Adoptium (OpenJDK)](https://adoptium.net/), or [Azul Systems (OpenJDK)](https://www.azul.com/downloads/zulu-community/).
```

- [Apache Maven](https://maven.apache.org/index.html) 3.3 or later, is installed.

## Clone the application from GitHub

Clone the sample application to your computer:

```sh

> git clone https://github.com/yugabyte/simple-java-app-yugabyte-cloud.git && cd simple-java-app-yugabyte-cloud

Reviewer: Made this application generic so that we can use it for both Cloud and Core quick start guides. As a result, changed the repo name and updated slightly the GitHub README file. Check it out and update on your side:
https://github.com/yugabyte/yugabyte-simple-java-app

```

## Provide Yugabyte Cloud settings

The application needs to establish a secure connection to your Yugabyte Cloud instance. To do this:

1. Open the `app.properties` file located in the application `src/main/resources/` folder.

2. Set the following configuration settings:

    - **host** - the host name of your Yugabyte Cloud instance. To obtain the cluster host name, sign in to Yugabyte Cloud, select your cluster on the **Clusters** page, and click **Settings**. The host is displayed under **Network Access**.
    - **port** - the port number that will be used by the JDBC driver (the default YugabyteDB YSQL port is 5433).
    - **dbUser** and **dbPassword** - the username and password for the YugabyteDB database. If you are using the default database you created when deploying the cluster, these can be found in the credentials file you downloaded.

>     - **sslRootCert** - the full path to the cluster CA certificate

Reviewer: Check the GitHub Readme, I've added the `sslMode` parameter so that we can use the project for both Cloud and Core quick start guides.

3. Save the file.

## Build and run the application

To build the application, run the following command.

```sh
$ mvn clean package
```

To start the application, run the following command.

```sh
java -cp target/simple-java-app-yugabyte-cloud-1.0-SNAPSHOT.jar SampleApp
```

If you are running the application on a free or single node cluster, the driver will display a warning that the load balance failed and will fall back to a regular connection.

You should then see output similar to the following:

```output
>>>> Successfully connected to Yugabyte Cloud.
>>>> Successfully created DemoAccount table.
>>>> Selecting accounts:
name = Jessica, age = 28, country = USA, balance = 10000
name = John, age = 28, country = Canada, balance = 9000

>>>> Transferred 800 between accounts.
>>>> Selecting accounts:
name = Jessica, age = 28, country = USA, balance = 9200
name = John, age = 28, country = Canada, balance = 9800
```

You have successfully executed a simple Java application that works with Yugabyte Cloud.

## Explore the application logic

Open the `SampleApp.java` file in the application `/src/main/java/` folder. The application has the following methods:

> - **main** establishes a connection with your cluster via the topology-aware Yugabyte JDBC driver.

Reviewer: You know, let's add more visuals in the form of the code snippets here so that we don't require the developer to open the project with her/his IDE unless necessary. We don't need to do this in GitHub's readme but this doc page is a perfect place to be more descriptive.

For instance, for the **main** method, let's add this snippet:
`
YBClusterAwareDataSource ds = new YBClusterAwareDataSource();

        ds.setUrl("jdbc:yugabytedb://" + settings.getProperty("host") + ":"
            + settings.getProperty("port") + "/yugabyte");
        ds.setUser(settings.getProperty("dbUser"));
        ds.setPassword(settings.getProperty("dbPassword"));
        
        // Additional SSL-specific settings. See the source code for details.

        Connection conn = ds.getConnection();
`

> - **createDatabase** - uses PostGres-compliant DDL commands to create a sample database.

Reviewer 2: There's never a mid-cap G in Postgres or PostgreSQL... (and you can eliminate the dashes in this list, as every method name flows correctly into the text that follows it)
```suggestion
- **createDatabase** uses PostgreSQL-compliant DDL commands to create a sample database.
```

> - **createDatabase** uses PostgreSQL-compliant DDL commands to create a sample database.

Reviewer: Add this code snippet:

```
Statement stmt = conn.createStatement();

        stmt.execute("CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS " + TABLE_NAME +
            "(" +
            "id int PRIMARY KEY," +
            "name varchar," +
            "age int," +
            "country varchar," +
            "balance int" +
            ")");

        stmt.execute("INSERT INTO " + TABLE_NAME + " VALUES" +
            "(1, 'Jessica', 28, 'USA', 10000)," +
            "(2, 'John', 28, 'Canada', 9000)");
```

> - **selectAccounts** queries your distributed data using the SQL `SELECT` statement.

Reviewer: ```
Statement stmt = conn.createStatement();

        ResultSet rs = stmt.executeQuery("SELECT * FROM " + TABLE_NAME);

        while (rs.next()) {
            System.out.println(String.format("name = %s, age = %s, country = %s, balance = %s",
                rs.getString(2), rs.getString(3),
                rs.getString(4), rs.getString(5)));
        }
```

> - **transferMoneyBetweenAccounts** updates your data consistently with distributed transactions.

Reviewer: Add this statement:

```
Statement stmt = conn.createStatement();

        try {
            stmt.execute(
                "BEGIN TRANSACTION;" +
                    "UPDATE " + TABLE_NAME + " SET balance = balance - " + amount + "" + " WHERE name = 'Jessica';" +
                    "UPDATE " + TABLE_NAME + " SET balance = balance + " + amount + "" + " WHERE name = 'John';" +
                    "COMMIT;"
            );
        } catch (SQLException e) {
            if (e.getErrorCode() == 40001) {
                // The operation aborted due to a concurrent transaction trying to modify the same set of rows.
                // Consider adding retry logic for production-grade applications.
                e.printStackTrace();
            } else {
                throw e;
            }
```

---
title: Build a Java application that uses YSQL
headerTitle: Build a Java application
linkTitle: Java
description: Build a simple Java application using the YugabyteDB JDBC Driver and using the YSQL API to connect to and interact with a Yugabyte Cloud cluster.
menu:
  latest:
    parent: cloud-build-apps
    name: Java
    identifier: cloud-java-1
    weight: 550
type: page
isTocNested: true
showAsideToc: true
---

The following tutorial shows a simple Java application that connects to a YugabyteDB cluster using the topology-aware [Yugabyte JDBC driver](../../../../../integrations/jdbc-driver/) and performs basic SQL operations. Use the application as a template to get started with Yugabyte Cloud in Java.

## Prerequisites

> 

Reviewer: This section is left empty. Either remove or fill in. Probably the latter is necessary.

```sh
$ mvn clean package
```

To start the application, run the following command.

```sh
java -cp target/yugabyte-simple-java-app-1.0-SNAPSHOT.jar SampleApp
```

If you are running the application on a free or single node cluster, the driver will display a warning that the load balance failed and will fall back to a regular connection.

You should then see output similar to the following:

```output
>>>> Successfully connected to YugabyteDB!
>>>> Successfully created DemoAccount table.
>>>> Selecting accounts:
name = Jessica, age = 28, country = USA, balance = 10000
name = John, age = 28, country = Canada, balance = 9000

>>>> Transferred 800 between accounts.
>>>> Selecting accounts:
name = Jessica, age = 28, country = USA, balance = 9200
name = John, age = 28, country = Canada, balance = 9800
```

You have successfully executed a simple Java application that works with Yugabyte Cloud.

## Explore the application logic

Open the `SampleApp.java` file in the application `/src/main/java/` folder to review the methods.

### main

The `main` method establishes a connection with your cluster via the topology-aware Yugabyte JDBC driver.

```java

> YBClusterAwareDataSource ds = new YBClusterAwareDataSource();

Reviewer: Have the same indentation between all lines of the following code snippet.

    ds.setUrl("jdbc:yugabytedb://" + settings.getProperty("host") + ":"
        + settings.getProperty("port") + "/yugabyte");
    ds.setUser(settings.getProperty("dbUser"));
    ds.setPassword(settings.getProperty("dbPassword"));
    
    // Additional SSL-specific settings. See the source code for details.

    Connection conn = ds.getConnection();
```

### createDatabase

The `createDatabase` method uses PostgreSQL-compliant DDL commands to create a sample database.

```java

> Statement stmt = conn.createStatement();

Reviewer: Same here, fix the indentation.

    stmt.execute("CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS " + TABLE_NAME +
        "(" +
        "id int PRIMARY KEY," +
        "name varchar," +
        "age int," +
        "country varchar," +
        "balance int" +
        ")");

    stmt.execute("INSERT INTO " + TABLE_NAME + " VALUES" +
        "(1, 'Jessica', 28, 'USA', 10000)," +
        "(2, 'John', 28, 'Canada', 9000)");
```

### selectAccounts

The `selectAccounts` method queries your distributed data using the SQL `SELECT` statement.

```java

> Statement stmt = conn.createStatement();

Reviewer: Use the same indentation as for the "ResultSet..." line.

    ResultSet rs = stmt.executeQuery("SELECT * FROM " + TABLE_NAME);

    while (rs.next()) {
        System.out.println(String.format("name = %s, age = %s, country = %s, balance = %s",
            rs.getString(2), rs.getString(3),
            rs.getString(4), rs.getString(5)));
    }
```

### transferMoneyBetweenAccounts

The `transferMoneyBetweenAccounts` method updates your data consistently with distributed transactions.

```java

> Statement stmt = conn.createStatement();

Reviewer: Use the same indentation as the "try.." line below.

    try {
        stmt.execute(
            "BEGIN TRANSACTION;" +
                "UPDATE " + TABLE_NAME + " SET balance = balance - " + amount + "" + " WHERE name = 'Jessica';" +
                "UPDATE " + TABLE_NAME + " SET balance = balance + " + amount + "" + " WHERE name = 'John';" +
                "COMMIT;"
        );
    } catch (SQLException e) {
        if (e.getErrorCode() == 40001) {

>             // The operation aborted due to a concurrent transaction trying to modify the same set of rows.

Reviewer: OK, we already have this notice here for the 40001 error code. No need to add other notes.
